In the last video, we created our gender column but we have to put a little bit more work into that to
make sure it looks the way we want it to look.
So in that gender column, we see that we have population minus female and population minus male.
Now this is not really good, right, because normally we want to have the female and male as the only information
that is displayed in that column,
let's change that. At the moment, I'm in the home ribbon and in the home ribbon, we can find the split column
function which does exactly that, what you want to do right here,
however this is one of the functions that is available in multiple ribbons
as I said in the beginning, that this happens quite often in the Power BI desktop. So if go to the
transform ribbon right here
and then look to the middle of that ribbon, you'll see the same option.
This has the same functionalities it has in the home ribbon,
it's just here twice,
so let's select this one and you can see that we have two options now.
We can split the column, so the selected column by delimiter or by the number of characters, in our case
I will suggest that we use the delimiter
but as I want to show you as much as possible,
let's also see how this works by the number of characters.
So I'll select that and we have to define after how many characters Power BI has to split the column.
We have population as the word that's in every row,
so this is 10 characters.
Let's now press OK
and wait a few seconds because Power BI has to do that
and now we see that the column was split into two parts.
However I'm not really liking that,
right, of course we could now replace that minus and find a workaround but that's not really good.
So let's undo that by pressing the x and apply steps and go to the split column function once again
and now select the by delimiter function, as we can see, Power BI automatically selected the delimiter
we might want to have
which is true in that case and we want to split it at each occurrence, which doesn't make a lot of difference
in our case as the delimiter is only here once
but in case you have multiple delimiters in one of the values, you can define after which one the column
should be split into two parts.
Now as this is fine, let's press ok and wait a few seconds
and now this looks really good.
Let's scroll to the right and we see that we have one column named population and one column named according
to the gender. This population column is the column that we don't need,
so let's go to the home ribbon and press remove columns and that gender too is what we need,
let's simply double-click it and call it gender only.
Now this is it,
we now are actually done with our first cleaning and shaping of the initial queries. In the next video,
I'm going to show you how to bring some structure into that query section right here.